Are done with the math Hope you survived that.
Hope you powered through and got some valuable insights and knowledge from the previous couple of tutorials
.
And today we're off to the fun part.
We're going to work with Grettel.
We're going to recreate our model and I'll show you how to get the odds ratios for your coefficients
in your logistic regression.
And then I'll show you how to take them and export them into Excel and then actually we'll show you
how to put them into PowerPoint and I will show you the way I would go about presenting them to your
manager or to an executive.
And so on.
So the knowledge that you'll gain in this material will be applicable regardless of what tool using
just like everything that we're learning.
Regardless of what tool you're going to be using for modeling you're going to be able to apply this
knowledge in your work.
All right.
So let's get straight into it.
So I've already got a grill open up somewhere over here.
There it is.
And before you do anything don't post this video before you do anything before you recreate the model
just like I did.
You have to do one other thing.
As always you'll have to do the work twice.
And so just go to file and we're going to install a package.
I'll explain what I'm doing now and then you'll recreate the model so don't create the model for now
just just watch his explanation.
So if I go to moral and I run the model already done the coefficients here and everything is is ready
to run if I run this model Now you'll notice that it doesn't have any information on the observation
.
So this is like like we're used to seeing what we're used to seeing but other packages other software
packages for modeling they will add another Komori here which tells you about the odds ratio so it already
knows that you want to take the exponent of the coefficients.
So we'll do that for you and add another column.
Grinnel doesn't do that.
But we can there's a workaround we can install a package that'll help us get that information so just
close that we'll I'll close that before you create more of what you need to do in Grettel as you go
to file actually go to Tools go to function packages go to server and here scroll down and find a package
which starts with the letter O as called odds ratios.
So once you found that it's by Ricardo Jack.
So once you've done that click Install right click and click install it it's install.
My one doesn't ask me to restart Grettel because I already had it installed.
But yours will Huskie to restart Grinnel So that's why I warned you from creating the model because
you would have to restart grid and you would lose all of that so once you've installed it restart Grettel
and then you will create the model.
All right.
Now assuming that you've installed the package go ahead and import your data said which is chern modeling
Dotsie a suite.
And as we did previously create the dummy variables for geography for gender and create this new variable
load balance which is locked and balance plus one.
And now we're going to go run the model so model limited logic binary and as you can see here I already
have the variables and I use that file that was saved a while back to remind me which variables we decided
to keep and I've put on show p values.
So just copy them from either that file or from my screen and once you've done that click OK.
And here we have the model and as we had it previously right but now we know what extra thing we know
something special about the coefficients that we can now interpret them.
And isn't that isn't that a bit exciting.
So what we can do if these coefficients we can take an exponent of the coefficients and that will tell
us how the how the odds ratio is impacted.
When you have a 1 unit change in the underlying variable.
Now we don't have that column as discussed but after you've installed the package.
If you go to analysis there'll be a new menu here which is a legit odds ratios and if you click that
you will get the odds ratios So basically the multiplicative factors that will be applied to your odds
ratio.
If your variable the underlying variable is increased by one unit so this is the really cool part.
Now we get to take all of this and put it into one Excel spreadsheet preparing it for our reports so
there is Excel.
What are going to do now.
I'll well I'll move it here somewhere.
I'm going to take all of this.
I'm going to go file edit actually copy and I will copy it as this comma separated.
OK copied there.
Perfect.
Now I'm going to take this and I'm going to it has to be about and then copy just plain text is fine
.
And I'm going to paste it somewhere here.
Right so now I'm going to select this column so I'm going to zoom in a bit for you to see better.
All right so pretty much we've taken all the information about a model from Grendal and we've put it
into Excel.
Great.
Now let's make it look pretty.
I'm going to select this column just for this.
All the racial stuff because as you can see the information here is just is and one is in each cell
just a long line of information.
So I like to call them.
I'm going to go to data text to columns of favorite will go delimited.
I will just like space forget about tabs like space make sure that it's checked.
Treat consecutive delimiter as one the next and just click Finish.
There you go.
So now it's all separated.
Great.
Now we have these variables right.
Don't forget there's no constant just starting from the variables.
Take the odds ratios copy them and put them here.
Not the constant the second line.
And don't forget the name.
Put it over there.
All right great.
So now we can get rid of all this Deely that now we can get rid of all of that.
Delete that.
All of that.
OK so this is us preparing a report.
This is the fun part we're preparing a report for you for the manager or for the executive or whoever
you are presenting to an audience of 10 people you want to explain to them how their bank is performing
.
Why are people leaving.
What has this test done.
What has it told us and what are the steps going forward.
What should the bank focus on.
So obviously there are going to be interest in standon ever or Zed Ballis so we can get rid of them
.
The less information the better people digest the smaller chunks of information better.
You might want to keep the P-value Just as evidence of your approach of you know that these are statistically
significant variables and then maybe you'll have a chat about the 10-Year that it is great and 0.05
but decide to keep it in.
And there is a red flag there that this is you know that it's doing the opposite.
So basically it will just keep them in but we'll grade them out we'll grade them out so people understand
that this is not actually the most important part of the report.
What is important is the coefficient and the odds ratio.
And as you now know the odds ratio is directly linked to the coefficient it is.
X is the exponent of your coefficient you can actually.
We could have done this without the package.
We could have just gone in Excel equals exponent of that right and just copied it down.
And so you can see it's exactly the same value exactly the same value.
So why did it through the packages because other software modeling packages they actually get give you
this call and so I wanted to you know be comfortable with having this call them in here already.
So we have this column.
What can we do if it.
Well let's do the most important part.
We're going to go to home and here we're going to do conditional formatting color scales and was just
like this one right away.
We can see visually see a heat map and we can see what is going on.
We can see right away.
Germany BAMM.
It is the highest impact for people leaning so green in this case is actually actually the reverse heat
map so that's good though we notice that so let's do the reverse heat map so the second one.
So people in Germany are the most likely to live.
So this is all the way this works.
Probably the best way to say it is this is the most important factor most important independent variable
that influences people leaving right.
So if you change from not Germany to Germany then the odds ratio increases by two point one.
Basically the odds ratio doubles then is the next one is gender.
So if when you go from a male customer to a female Kusma all else held constant Melka female customers
onepoint the ratio of a female customer leaving are one point seven times greater than for a male customer
.
So basically the observation created by 70 percent.
That's huge.
And then is active member is the opposite so here you can see it's less than 1 which means that when
you go from an mamm member who is not active member who is active the odds ratio gets multiplied by
0.44 So it basically drops by 66 percent which is also a great a great result in terms of retention
keeping the customer.
Then these are yellow and anything below zero point.
So this is actually a good rule of thumb for you here anything below zero point eighty.
Don't include it so it's not.
It's not that important doesn't have that much of an impact anything above anything.
O has her anything above zero point eight and below 1.2 doesn't have much of an impact so you can kind
of ignore those variables so the odds ratio here changes just multiply by 0.19 age.
Or here it gets multiplied by 1 point or 7 so not that much of a change if you want to you can explore
this further but what this keep telling you that these are your alarming red flags you gotta you got
to focus on these.
This is important so try to make the members more active and you have to cater to the German market
to female customers.
In the German market something is going on there so that's important part and that is what you're going
to be presenting to your executives.
These are your key findings.
Remember data science is about finding insights from the data.
This is your.
These are your insights.
I don't think I want to show you here is that because these were taken exponents.
You know that each of the power of zero equals one.
So if you have a zero here it'll be exactly 1 here anything below zero here will be a value less than
1 so a negative means less than 1 negative.
Less than 1 negative.
Less than one negative.
Less than 1.
Anything above 0 will be a positive value here so positive and greater than 1.
So anything above zero value above 1 here positive above 1.
These are positive above 1 positive above 1.
So just showing you that there isn't an hour there is an alignment between the sign here and whether
the value is greater than 1 or less than 1 here which is as we expected right.
So now we're going to take this and I've actually got a report prepared here so this is going to go
to your manager or manager.
And I'm going to just increase the size a bit make you make some space zoom out.
Let's copy that and the space that in.
So there's a report.
Maybe whereas view grid lines.
No.
So there you go.
So that is the report that you'll be sending off to your manager and maybe you can add some footnotes
say OK.
These are the insites active members least likely to leave and very very impactful metric.
So we want to try make our members as active as possible get them working with our bank.
Right.
And then there's something going on in this geography with female customers.
Perhaps they are not happy with the products that we're providing or there is a competitor that is targeting
them so we have to do something about it.
And then these ones you would only look at them next so probably this one is the next important one
.
Number of products if people have more products they're less likely to leave as you would expect.
So there you go that's how you analyze the coefficients of a logistic regression and more importantly
a Joe demographic customer segmentation.
I hope this tutorial is useful very insightful.
When I learned this for the first time it was like mind blowing took me a while to get my head around
it and actually understand how to use it.
I kept forgetting how how this odds ratio was derived because there is kind of like there's quite a
lot to remember I understand but can always come back and refresh knowledge if you forget but do also
know that you can use this in your modeling now.
And I hope that this information will help in your work.
And I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then be analyzing